# AMIR
AMIR: Analytic Method for Improving Responsiveness by Reducing Burstiness

Service demand burstiness or serial correlations in resource service demands has previously been shown to have an adverse impact on system performance metrics such as response time. This paper proposes \textbf{AMIR}, an analytic framework to characterize burstiness and identify strategies to reduce its impact on performance. AMIR considers an overtake free system model consisting of multiple queues that service multiple classes of sessions, i.e., sequences of requests.  Given the per-class service demand distributions and the number of sessions belonging to each class, AMIR can identify an ordering of sessions, i.e., a schedule, that minimizes burstiness at the bottleneck and is hence likely to improve system responsiveness metrics including mean session wait time and total schedule processing time.  To characterize burstiness, the technique uses an order $O$ schedule burstiness metric $\beta^O$ representing the mean probability that $O+1$ consecutive sessions in the schedule have resource demands at the bottleneck greater than the mean bottleneck demand of the schedule.  For a given $O$, AMIR uses Integer Linear Programming (ILP) to identify schedules that progressively minimize $\beta^i$ $\forall i \in \{1,...O\}$. We conduct an extensive simulation study to provide insights on the conditions under which such schedules can improve system responsiveness. These results show that schedules derived from AMIR can significantly outperform those derived from baseline policies such as Shortest Job First (SJF) and random scheduling when session classes are dissimilar from one another in terms of their service demand distributions. Furthermore,  minimizing for higher orders of schedule burstiness is most critical when the bottleneck is heavily utilized and when the service demands of a workload are highly variable. For the system model we consider, we are not aware of other techniques that are designed to analytically derive insights on the performance impact of high order service demand burstiness.  

How to run the code:

Download all files in the Code folder to a local directory.  Assuming MATLAB (version 2016B or later), MOSEK (version 8.1.0.31 and above) and CVX (version 2.1) are installed, the sampleRun.m file should execute and provide the output given in sampleRun.pdf. Please see runSample.m for how to use the codes. 
